# Migrate to v1.1

When updating the SDK from version 1.0.z to 1.1.z you will need to make some changes to your code. This document
explains the changes required to build your application again with the new SDK version.

## Package name changes

The SDK switched to Kotlin Multiplatform starting from v1.1. As a side effect some of our modules have been moved around
or renamed.

Each module now has separate builds for different platforms (common, jvm and android). Additionally the separate
jellyfin-platform-android module was merged into jellyfin-core.

The table below shows the new names to be used:

| Module (before)               | Module (after)    |
| ----------------------------- | ----------------- |
| jellyfin-core                 | jellyfin-core     |
| **jellyfin-platform-android** | **jellyfin-core** |
| jellyfin-api                  | jellyfin-api      |
| jellyfin-model                | jellyfin-model    |

Gradle will automatically use the Android build when the Android plugin is enabled. If you need to explicitly use the
Android build you can add the "-android" suffix.

## SDK initialization

The `Jellyfin {}` function to create an instance of the SDK was renamed to `createJellyfin {}`. The options set inside
of this builder changed depending on your platform. If the settings are incorrect it will throw an exception on
initialization.

### JVM

On the JVM there aren't many changes. Just make sure to rename `Jellyfin` to `createJellyfin`.

```kotlin
createJellyfin {
	clientInfo = ClientInfo(name = "My awesome client!", version = "1.33.7")
}
```

### Android

No longer needs the `android()` function called as this is automatically applied. Instead, set the context variable to
an Android context.

```kotlin
createJellyfin {
	context = /* Android Context */
	clientInfo = ClientInfo(name = "My awesome client!", version = "1.33.7")
}
```

## API extensions

API interaction was improved for better performance and to make it easier to use. Previously when using the API you
had to follow two steps:

1. Create API client instance using `jellyfin.createApi`
2. Create instance of an API class that contains operations, like UserApi.

This came with a few issues. First, you had to keep track of those API classes to avoid constantly creating new ones.
Secondly, you couldn't use autocomplete in an IDE to easily find the available API classes and had to rely on
api.jellyfin.org.

The old behavior still exists in v1.1, and the new behavior actually relies on it. You can now use extension properties
to get an API instance stored in the API client. A short example follows:

```kotlin
val api = jellyfin.createApi(/* ... */)

// Old
val userApi = UserApi(api)

// New
val userApi = api.userApi 
```

The extension properties should be imported, an IDE will do this automatically. The API class is initialized on first
use and stored in the API client.

## Collections in the API

Previously when using collections in the parameters or request bodies of operations you had to use an instance of
`List`. Starting from v1.1 the types have changed to `Collection`. This means you can use a `Set` or any other type that
implements Collection.

## Error reporting in RecommendedServerDiscovery

The RecommendedServerDiscovery class (`jellyfin.discovery.getRecommendedServers(candidates)`) is a powerful tool to
correct user inputted server addresses and find a SDK compatible server. One issue we've observed in the Jellyfin
Android apps was that it lacked information as to why a server was not recommended if the input is correct. To fix this
a part of the algorithm was rewritten to report issues. If you're using this function you can now use the newly added
`issues` collection added to the returned `RecommendedServerInfo`. We currently have the following issues:

- MissingSystemInfo(throwable: Throwable?)

  No system information found. This could happen due too networking issues or an invalid server address.

- InvalidProductName(productName: String?)

  The product name in the system information is incorrect.

- MissingVersion

  No version found in system information.

- UnsupportedServerVersion(public val version: ServerVersion)

  The SDK does not support the server version.

- OutdatedServerVersion(version: ServerVersion)

  The SDK uses a newer version of the API compared to the server. While this normally shouldn't be a problem, it may
  potentially cause problems like crashes.

- SlowResponse(responseTime: Long)

  The system information response was slow.

## Replacing KtorClient 

This version of the SDK changed how the backend of the API part works. Previously the `createApi` function would return
a `KtorClient` instance and you might have used this type in your code. Starting from v1.1 it is strongly advised to
instead use the `ApiClient` interface type.

The SDK now supports different ApiClient implementations. An ApiClient is used to handle the HTTP part while serializing
and creating models is done by the SDK. We might replace KtorClient in the future or add different implementations.
