# Migrate to v1.5

This release updates the generated API from Jellyfin server 10.8 to 10.9. The minimum supported server changed to
10.9.0.

## Removed includeCredentials

It is no longer possible to instruct the ApiClient to add credentials to URL's.

## Remove measureBitrate and detectBitrate extensions from MediaInfoApi

The unreliable helper functions to measure/detect bitrate have been removed.

## Remove userId property

Starting with Jellyfin Server 10.9 we no longer require a userId in the API. The userId property was removed from the
ApiClient instance to mirror this behavior change.

## Deprecated ApiClient properties

The setters for baseUrl, accessToken, clientInfo and deviceInfo properties on ApiClient instances are now deprecated.
Use the `update()` function instead. This new function is required to propagate changes to the WebSocket instances.

## New WebSocket API

The WebSocket API was rewritten to be more reliable. See [Using WebSockets](../guide/websockets.md) for more
information.

## Device profile builder

A new `buildDeviceProfile` function was added to easily construct device profiles with a DSL.

## Enum fromName

The generated enum models now have a companion object with `fromName` and `fromNameOrNull` functions. These can be used
to initiate the enum members based on their API values (also available as `serialName` property).

## Duration in HttpClientOptions

The `HttpClientOptions` now uses a Kotlin duration for the various timeout properties instead of a number.

## SSL exceptions

The `SecureConnectionException` is now subclassed by `BadPeerSSLKeyException`, `HandshakeCertificateException`,
`InvalidSSLProtocolImplementationException` and `PeerNotAuthenticatedException`. These new exception types provide a
more
specific error when a secure connection fails.
